now the boy Samuel ministered to the
Lord before Eli and the word of the Lord
was rare in those days there was no
widespread revelation and it came to
pass at that time while Eli was lying
down in his place and when his eyes had
begun to grow so dim that he could not
see and before the lamp of God went out
in the tabernacle of the Lord where the
Ark of God was and while Samuel was
lying down that the Lord called Samuel
and he answered Here I am so he ran to
Eli Here I am for you called me I did
not call lie down again and he went and
lay down then the Lord called yet again
Samuel so Samuel arose and went to Eli
Here I am for you called me I did not
call my son lie down again now Samuel
did not yet know the Lord nor was the
word of the Lord yet revealed to him and
the Lord called Samuel again the third
time so he arose and went to Eli Here I
am for you did call me then Eli perceive
that the Lord had called the boy go lie
down
and it shall be if he calls you that you
must say speak Lord for your servant
here so Samuel when to lay down in his
place now the Lord came and stood and
called as at other times Samuel Samuel
speak for your servant years behold I
will do something in Israel at which
both ears of everyone who hears it will
tingle in that day I will perform
against Eli all that I have spoken
concerning his house from beginning to
end for I have told him that I will
judge his house for ever for the
iniquity which he knows because his sons
made themselves vile and he did not
restraint and therefore I have sworn to
the house of Eli
that the iniquity of Eli's house shall
not be atoned for by sacrifice or
offering for ever
so Samuel lay down until morning and
open the doors of the house of the Lord
and Samuel was afraid to tell Eli the
vision then Eli called Samuel Samuel my
son Here I am what is the word that the
Lord spoke to you please do not hide it
from me
God do so from you and more also who
hide anything from me of all the things
that he said to you and Samuel told him
everything and hid nothing from him it
is the Lord let him do what seems good
to him so Samuel grew and the Lord was
with him and let none of his words fall
to the ground and all Israel from Dan to
Beersheba knew that Samuel had been
established as a prophet of the Lord
then the Lord appeared again in Shiloh
for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel
in Shiloh by the word of the Lord
[Music]